---
layout: page
title: 'Students'
---

Any university class that deploys the digital runs the risk of falling into the trap of the "digital native": the assumption that our students, by virtue of their youth and exposure to digital technologies, will innately understand how to engage such technologies better than their older instructors. Surely a generation raised with smartphones and social media will know how to build a website, or craft a multimedia presentation? 

This is, unsurprisingly, not the case. Indeed, as media studies professor at the University of Virginia Siva Vaidhyanathan observes, the idea that young people have a preternatural grasp on the internet is "absolutely untrue", and

> That myth is in the direct interest of education-technology companies and Silicon Valley itself. If we all decide that young people have some sort of savantlike talent with digital technology, than we’re easily led to policies and buying decisions and pedagogical decisions that pander to Silicon Valley. [^1]

Vaidhyanathan's observation usefully situates how students' digital lives are oriented towards *consumption* rather than *production*. Indeed, the consumption model rules the majority of our experience of the internet, from consuming content produced by other websites, to us as objects of consumption ourselves. This last point takes on a particularly ethical concern when we ask students to engage various open or proprietary digital platforms for their work. It was only recently, for instance, [that Google agreed to no longer mine students' .edu email addresses to build advertising profiles](https://techcrunch.com/2014/04/30/google-stops-mining-education-gmail-and-google-apps-accounts-for-ad-targeting/). **The sense of "digital native" here shifts, from one whose constant presence on the internet leads to imagined facility with technology and toward one who is "native" in the sense that she has been tracked, quantified, and analyzed from her first moments as a participant in the online economy.** 

Finally, despite the large push toward "learning to code," itself a discourse complicated by the business interests of large tech companies, the first year composition classroom is for many students the first time they are asked to create a written, standalone, authoritative website. But it is far from the first time that they produce imaginative and argumentative content for the internet. The blog post, multimedia essay, and indeed a digital forum like this are all particular genres of writing perhaps relatively divorced from the kinds of argumentation and expression practiced on various social media platforms. The example of Vine is instructive: Vine was a subsidiary of Twitter where users produced six-second videos. [These users were predominantly young people of color](https://www.npr.org/sections/codeswitch/2016/10/28/499681576/vine-ending-grew-black-brown-talent), and their videos often felt like a new kind of short-form expression, whether in their blossoming absurdism or the platform's role in facilitating key historical moments, particularly protests in Ferguson. In late 2016, Twitter shut Vine down, citing a lack of profitability. Vine teaches us two key lessons about platforms: first, **that our students may indeed have facility with composition techniques otherwise unfamiliar to the first year composition classroom**; and second, **that platforms themselves are vulnerable to interests beyond that of the university.**

[^1]: Quoted in O'Neil, Megan. "Confronting the Myth of the 'Digital Native.'" *The Chronicle of Higher Education*, 21 April, 2014. <http://www.chronicle.com/article/Confronting-the-Myth-of-the/145949>. 