---
layout: page
title: 'Teachers'
---

Those of us teaching digital composition are often in what feels like an unresolvable bind: while we understand the value of teaching digital literacies in an increasingly technologized world, such literacies require time and skills often beyond the scope of a week or two in the standard first year composition syllabus, and even more pressingly, beyond ourselves as instructors. Various digital platforms may have political, ethical, or formal considerations that may them undesirable to teach with, but the ready-made platform has one key advantage: **it already *exists*, and our students can use it without worrying too much about acquiring skills in HTML, CSS, video editing, or any other range of tactics that may be integral to higher-level digital production**. Moreover, we as instructors can troubleshoot such platforms more easily, or turn our students to institutional configurations prepared to engage these platforms specifically. 

These issues are only magnified for graduate student instructors. As Erik Ellis and Dave Underwood observe, moving beyond the *consumptive* model of engaging the digital requires an "institutional framework" that may or may not exist robustly at different institutions.[^1] These frameworks might be ideological—for instance, whether or not one's program implicitly or explicitly privileges "alphabetic literacy" over digital and multimedia forms—or material—for instance, whether or not there are spaces equipped for teaching with technology, or infrastructural support from libraries and IT units for training and troubleshooting. **Developing these frameworks where they do not already exist requires an institutional cache often unavailable to the individual and transient graduate instructor.**

But there are still advantages to teaching the basic skills of digital literacies—whether that includes writing code itself or even practicing a broader kind of design-oriented thinking that can critique given platforms. One advantage in particular is the speed with which digital platforms and tools become outdated, whether due to the whims of major corporations that develop them, or the opposite, a drying-out of resources for developing open-source and public tools. The rise and fall of the [Digital Research Tools (DiRT) Directory](https://dirtdirectory.org/), originally a key resource for digital humanists to identify and share digital tools, now abandoned due to institutional neglect, is instructive in this regard. Going back to "the base" has the advantage of surveying rising and falling trends, as well as giving our students more critical and technical apparatuses for remaking technologies themselves toward their persuasive and argumentative ends.

[^1]: Ellis, Erik and Dave Underwood. "Completely Out of My Domain: An Institutional Narrative of Multimedia Collaboration." *Kairos*, vol. 20, no. 1, fall 2015, <http://kairos.technorhetoric.net/20.1/coverweb/ellis-underwood/index.html>. 